Please welcome John Burkey,
Java Class' Team Technical Lead.
Hi everybody.
So I'm going to talk about
a lot of things today.
Let me grab my little clicker.
We're going to divide the
talk into three sections.
And this is how I work it.
There's me.
And so our three sections are
we do a features overview of
what Mac OS X Java is about,
the Java 2D and things like that.
That's, I think, important because we've
got a mixed crowd here,
I think.
Tips and techniques for how to
make your apps high quality,
high speed,
and including some of the things that
are different about our platform,
which is why they're really important.
And also our update, which is coming up,
and the exciting new technology
that's part of the update.
And then we'll go to Q&A at the end.
So first of all, can I have a show of
hands for Java developers?
Everybody's a Java developer, good.
And so how about a show of hands
of people who are Mac OS X people
who just heard about Java.
A couple.
So cool.
Partisan crowd.
So, great.
So this is Gerard Ziemski,
and he'll be assisting me today.
So, Mac OS X Java.
Finally we have Java 2.
It's been a long time coming.
We've worked really hard and
Sun's been really great to work
with and we finally have Java 2.
And as you guys know,
a big part of that is Java 2D.
Java Graphics,
from sort of the Mac OS X perspective,
I like to look at it as,
just like Quartz, it's PDF rendering.
It's, you know, general shapes,
a lot of different things that PDF has,
and because we are on top of Quartz,
we can actually generate PDF, too.
We'll talk more about
that in a little while.
Also,
we're an object API on top of Quartz.
I just want to point that
out because I think we have
some really good advantages,
a really good one-two punch,
because we have Quartz,
which is our OS graphics system,
and we have Java 2D,
which is a great object wrapper,
and I think together
they work really well.
I'll go into that, too.
And also,
this is actually really important.
Again, you're a partisan, but, you know,
the way we build these things is we use
the other APIs to build the nice API,
as far as I'm concerned.
And so what you guys get,
which is just great,
is you get the same API.
You get the same API with
just a few lines of code.
You can render to screen,
render to offscreen,
you can render to printers.
I think that's really great.
I was a Java developer
for a long time before,
as long as any, whatever, three years,
right, before I came to Apple,
and that was one of the best things
I thought about Java was that just
you whip out a few lines of code
and you can render almost anywhere.
So I really like that.
So, to the features,
what I'm going to do is first just
cover sort of each of these real quick,
and then we'll go to the
Java 2D demo and just point them out.
We wanted to sort of cover
that because some of this
technology is still pretty new.
It's just good to do a quick summary.
So general paths and shapes.
A quick way to say that is that
Basically,
any shape you can do with Bezier, Pass,
and Quadratics,
you can do with the General Path API.
And that goes from lines and rectangles
all the way up to the kind of things
you'll see in the Java 2D demo.
So that means,
for the first time in Java,
we can do all the things we need to
do to do professional applications.
Then we can take those shapes, whatever,
from rectangles all the way up,
and we can fill them
with whatever we want.
What I like about Sun's APIs is what
they tend to do is define a nice,
real, open, easy-to-customize API,
and then they tend to have an example
or two that is the common use.
So in the case of custom fills,
we have textures and gradients,
and they've defined these for us,
and they work just great.
And we actually, as a team,
try to optimize those cases
so that you can get the best
performance using the built-in ones,
because we can guess a lot
better about how things work.
So then on top of that,
we have completely custom fills.
You can actually define your own paint,
actually, it's called in Java 2D,
and do whatever you want for your paint.
So that's really nice.
You supply, you know,
maybe there's some new way to do
filling that we don't know about yet.
You can do whatever you want in there.
But textures and
gradients work just great.
Custom strokes.
So same kind of idea here.
This is really good, I think.
What you can do is you can define,
you can stroke an arbitrary line
or curve with any shape you want.
You basically... You can be
called back and you can say,
hey, this is the shape I want you
to spray all over my line.
However, they also have basic stroke,
which is one of these
ones they have built in,
and that lets you do
dashes and line widths,
et cetera.
So custom compositing, same kind of idea.
You define the blit.
So it's like having copy
bits for all us old Mac guys.
But you can do whatever you want.
So that's great.
And it's all in Java.
So that's great, too,
because you don't have to deal with all
the kind of things you run into when
you run off the end of your blitter,
et cetera.
So that's nice.
You know, of course it doesn't work,
but at least you get an
exception instead of a crash.
So and then also, this is another one of
these that has one built in.
It's got alpha compositing built in.
And, of course,
with the different engines
that we use to implement this,
that operation is built in.
So we'll get more into what
I mean by that in a minute.
But the main thing is that
you've got custom compositing.
You can define to do whatever
you want to do when you blit.
And you've got alpha
compositing built in.
Porta-deft compositing rules,
which is what... The court
supports natively.
And, of course,
it's completely portable code.
You guys know that.
Partisan.
So, we'll do a quick overview
of the Java 2D demo.
This is the Sun demo.
I just wanted to do a quick
overview of the features.
Gerard, do you want to start it up?
Oh, you got it up.
Great.
So we're just going to
do a few of the panels.
Most people have seen this,
but we're just going to
point out a few things.
So you'll see in this one,
this is the stroking stuff we were
talking about in the last slide.
They call it lines here.
And you'll notice that you can do dashes.
That's all basic strokes
in the top right.
You can do the different types of caps.
You can build that thing.
The arrows are thick lines
with different kinds of caps.
They're just giving good examples of
different kinds of things you can do.
You can switch it.
So here's Arcs and Curves,
and the most interesting
one is where the cursor is.
That's a Bezier animation,
and what's interesting
is there's a gradient.
Phil, why don't you click on that
and make that the big boy?
and then, yeah, stop it for a sec.
And then switch the draw choice to, yeah.
[Transcript missing]
So you saw a texture and a dash stroke.
So that's pretty cool.
You define the shape and then
you decide how to fill it,
how to stroke it.
And the stroke really is in a way,
both a geometry,
because you can do dashes
and things like that,
and a fill for that geometry.
So that's pretty flexible.
And all via object API, of course.
So go to the next one,
I forget which we had.
So this is a good one, too.
I think they do a good job of
making them informative and playful.
So the guy in the top left
is actually an animated GIF.
That's why he marches.
So that's cool.
It's built into the images.
If you draw any animated GIF,
if you put it into an image icon,
et cetera, they'll animate,
which is kind of cool.
But anyway, why don't you yank those
sliders on the top right one?
There's some built-in image operations,
too, and they do different
kinds of operations.
On the images, you can do color mixtures
and some other things.
So that's pretty cool.
There's several built-in.
You can define your own again, too.
So that's pretty neat.
And then, of course,
I guess that's some kind of sheer filter,
warp image, but it's doing some kind
of sheer transform matrix.
And I think we had one more, right?
and I'm just trying to stay light
because we have a lot to cover,
so we're just going to
do a quick overview.
So here is another pretty
big part of Java 2D and,
of course, Quartz.
Why don't you mess with the scale, shear,
and rotate?
I know this is all obvious,
but I'm just pointing it out.
So there's the scale, of course,
the shear, and the rotate.
These are all built in.
They're all standard.
It's standard PDF kind of language.
There's a transform matrix,
and I find transform, 3x2,
just like in Quartz,
just like in several other things.
It's great.
It's standard,
and because it's Object API with
garbage-collected objects,
you don't have to worry about
the kind of things they have to
worry about in the native APIs,
so I like that.
So also, good news for us Mac OS X guys.
The Quartz engine does really
well against the other platforms
and this kind of stuff.
We've measured a lot against
Windows machines for these kinds
of Bezier animations and things,
and at the high end,
we do really well with this engine,
so we're really happy with that
because they did a lot of great work.
They're a lot more knowledgeable
than we are about graphics,
and graphics.
And we were able to take the Sun engine,
put it aside,
and hook up to the Quartz engine instead,
and it was really great.
So you can... Yeah,
we can go back to slides.
Thank you.
So let me just click over here.
Back to the Mac OS X bonuses,
which I started to cover.
It's Quartz.
It's not a ported,
used every once in a while engine,
which as good as Sun's engine is,
that is what it is.
They avoid using it whenever they can,
whereas in Quartz, actually,
it's the OS graphic system,
so we have a lot greater fidelity
and a lot more resources behind it.
And that's really great for us Java guys,
because as I said,
the smart guys work on that
in Graff and Eno's group,
and they do all the hard work there.
So a couple of things that I think
are great for us Java guys,
though, is there's no raw
Quartz function calling.
The other ways to use Quartz always
involve calling C APIs and pointers.
So we get to avoid that.
We get the same fidelity and all
the same access to everything.
And on top of it, we get things like
compositing and strokes.
We get custom things built into
Java that aren't available in other APIs.
That's pretty cool.
So it's a real good... One,
two of the built-in
Apple technologies in Java 2D.
Print to PDF comes for free.
That's pretty cool.
Even if you don't hook it
up in some way in your app,
every time you print,
as I'm sure most of you have noticed,
there's always that preview to PDF.
In fact, that's always generated,
so there's always PDF there.
It's pretty cool.
And then we'll go into more
Mac OS X bonuses in the third section.
This next section is on performance.
It's tips and techniques you can do.
There are some of these
that are really important,
some of these are more nuance-y,
but I think they're all worth mentioning.
The four major areas are image creation,
that's actually one
of the most important,
rendering hints, double buffering,
and live window resizing.
So image creation,
the key high-level message here is
you want to use create-compatible
image or the 1.1 create image.
I'm going to show that
in code in just a sec.
But I also want to mention that
there's a whole pile of image types
that are really cool that we have now.
But the fact is we will
optimize first for the ones
that are native on our platform.
And so these aren't going
to be optimized for first.
And importantly, there's sort of a little
thing that all of us do,
right, is we set up our app and
getting close to shipping,
and then we want to squeeze a little
extra performance out of our app.
So usually what I do is I rig up
my performance analysis tools,
either just timing or some tool,
hopefully, like we now have
optimized in our platform.
And then I look and see, well,
where's my soft spots, right?
So when I find something
that just feels slow,
I go work on it.
So one of the things that people will do.
One of the things that people will
do is they'll go in here and say,
hey, I'm in a Windows machine,
so BGR must be really fast.
And sometimes it will be.
On our platform, it won't be.
And I would really prefer if you always
call it create compatible image because
we're working really hard to figure out,
based on what's going on underneath you,
to give you the right stuff.
And if you're going to do image
manipulation via the pixels directly,
I can totally understand where you
want to grab an ARGB or something
like that to make it simple.
The good news is that one in particular
is actually a native image format anyway,
so it will be fine.
It's pretty fast.
But if you're not doing
direct image manipulation,
it's best not to guess.
Because we're trying our
best to pick the right one.
So I think I said that enough.
So now what we're going to do,
if we can go to demo three.
So we'll just do some
little code snippets.
Let me just... This is JBuilder.
[Transcript missing]
I don't think I need
to run the thing now.
I'll run it once each way.
You'll see everything works the same.
This particular demo is meant
to be simple and not beautiful,
so excuse me for my graphics.
Very nice.
So the green box is rendered.
I'll show you that in the code.
[Transcript missing]
So now what we're doing is
we're making an image again,
except that instead of guessing,
we're being maybe too
clever for ourselves,
and we're making the image ourselves.
Looks exactly the same, RGB,
but maybe too much information.
So again, just to reinforce,
it's best to call Create Image or
get Graphics Configuration
and Create Compatible Image.
So back to slides.
and the code.
So rendering hints.
These are interesting and
this is more of a nuance,
but as we move forward we'll be taking
advantage of these more and more.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, so... let me get organized.
So, what we did here was...
Sorry, just indenting is a little weird.
What we did here was
we just drew two lines.
and I just wanted to show you the
anti-aliasing hand for primitives.
I'm just going to run that.
It's going to build it.
I love the speed here.
This is what we use every day
because of the productivity.
So anyway,
So there's one line that's
antialiased and one line that's not.
I just wanted to show
how that hint worked.
And so I'll flip the thing off,
and we'll see it the other way.
And then I'll just delve into
the hints here while I'm here,
because JBuilder provides a good
assist for this particular thing.
So I'll flip this off.
Oops, I think I debugged.
Stop that.
Okay.
So here's running.
and John Burkey, Gerard Ziemski.
and David This is a great
feature of JBuilder.
I'm not giving a JBuilder demo,
but it's just perfect for this.
So let's say I want to
do a different hint.
I'm just going to copy this.
And oops.
So be there in a sec.
I'm just going to hit dot here.
Here's all the sun hints right here.
Here's the different keys.
We've got color rendering,
default quality speed,
as I mentioned before, dithering,
fractional metrics,
interpolation for when we blit images,
how we do the pixel smoothing.
There's the rendering quality speed,
stroke.
There's a whole bunch of them.
So that's really cool, though.
Easy way to demo the
hints to show you that.
There are quite a lot of them.
We ignore most of them now,
but we will be adding them as we go.
As I said,
we definitely do the antialiasing one.
So I'm going to put that
back in and then do,
I'll just grab all this.
[Transcript missing]
So can we go back to slides?
So there's rendering hints.
Again,
anti-aliasing and text anti-aliasing.
I should just point this out.
Some of the old 1.0 applets,
like there's an old clock,
there's a second hand that sweeps.
Does the erase with white or draw
myself again with white to erase?
On 10, that leaves a blurred trail.
And that's because on 10,
anti-aliasing is on by default
where on other platforms it isn't.
And when you do erase
with white on top of,
let's say, a draw with black,
let's say of an anti-aliasing,
you don't get coverage
over all the pixels,
so it doesn't just stamp it all out.
So because of that,
you'll leave trails if
you use that technique.
The graphic systems
are pretty fast today,
so we'll get more into that in a minute,
as I was saying.
So I would recommend not using that
technique for rendering anymore.
That was something we
did in the old days.
Double buffering.
This is important.
We mentioned this last year,
but I want to emphasize it because
there's another trick that we were
able to do under the covers that,
again,
we'll talk about in the third section
that became possible because of this.
So the deal is that on Mac OS X,
double buffering is taken care
of by the operating system.
As you guys know,
Swing is double buffered as well.
What we do to Swing is we
rip out its double buffering,
and we make it draw directly to
our OS double buffer instead.
So as far as Swing is concerned,
it's drawing directly to screen.
Your code will still look like it's
drawing double buffered because
we manipulated the Swing state
so that it says what it does,
which is that it is double buffered,
even though the double buffering is
implemented differently underneath.
Then we tell the internals of the Swing
code that we're single buffered so that
they don't create images everywhere.
Not a big deal from your level,
and the JCK also agrees that we're double
buffered like we're supposed to be.
So that's good.
Everything works the same.
The difference is, though,
is because it's an OS double buffer,
we get two things.
The first thing we get is that
the Quartz engine does dirtiness
for dirty region detection.
So we can't get rid of dirtiness.
We can't get rid of the dirtiness.
So we can't get rid of the dirtiness.
As I said, we take care of Swing.
A lot of people did double
buffering in Java out of Swing.
It's really important that you examine
your code and get rid of that because
you're triple buffered right now.
So that's a memory thing, which,
as all of us know, memory is the biggest
thing to deal with in Java.
We don't want to be any
bigger than we have to be.
And especially with a real virtual
machine underneath us and a real
virtual memory system underneath that,
memory can be kind of a sketchy
thing when you're always going
to have the right amount.
What you don't want to do is
triple buffer for performance.
And then use all that extra resources
and end up hitting the disk.
So that's bad.
So that's cool.
I'm not good at this.
Oh, I think I turned it around.
So anyway,
next thing is live window resizing.
We have that on as a feature for 10.
It's as much a feature for you
guys as it's a feature for us.
We do our job in our apps
and in our services to make
this as easy as possible,
but certainly it's true that if your
main panel takes six seconds to render,
it's not going to be live.
Just pointing this out,
because it's different
than other platforms.
Of course,
if you're doing a big complicated scene,
like maybe a terrain render or something,
you can do a simple quick pass,
or you can keep the thing from last
time and stretch it or something.
There's a lot of games you can play.
[Transcript missing]
A few more.
This came up in our list,
so I wanted to point it out.
All graphics objects are created equal.
Every graphics object is the
same class in the system.
They're all 2D objects.
It doesn't matter where you get them.
They have different implementation
plug-ins underneath,
but that's all invisible to you,
and there's really no way
for you to affect that.
So every graphics object can
be casted to a graphics 2D.
Again, that came up in the list.
That's why I'm mentioning it.
Also, the more complicated the clip,
the slower the graphics speed.
That'll become really apparent in a sec,
but I hope it makes sense.
Actually, just to be real clear,
the other UI frameworks always
use the painter's algorithm,
which is the draw my guys
who are my parents first,
draw the children last,
so they don't have to deal
with clipped rendering.
And Swing does that as well.
Swing is like Power Plant.
Mac App and Cocoa,
they all do the same thing.
They use the painter's algorithm.
ADBT, for reasons, long,
complicated reasons,
some of which I agree with,
some of which I don't,
has thread-safe pre-clipped rendering.
So you can actually,
just to be real clear,
you can stick two heavyweight buttons in
a parent view and make three threads and
have them all render into the children
and the parent all at the same time,
and we'll clip it all for
you and make everything work.
It won't always be fast, though.
So, um, it's better to watch the clip.
Don't draw through too much clip.
Watch out for too many repaints.
I know that's obvious,
but we all know of many examples where
we're pinning way more than we need to.
And especially with double buffering,
because there's not as much flicker,
you tend to maybe miss them.
So, certainly we have,
that's one of the things
that we're always working on,
too.
So,
So last thing, of course, is profile.
Then cache the expensive stuff.
Metrics is one of those ones
that's been around for a while.
If you have one of
those complicated views,
I don't recommend double buffering,
but I can imagine in some weird
cases you would do that just
because you've got one piece of
thing that you just want to render.
For example,
maybe you want to do a really
beautiful icon that has a piece of
artwork and maybe some tags on top,
sort of like what Mail does.
They put that stamp on top with
the little five or whatever
mail messages you have.
Maybe you want to do that and then throw
that into an image because you just
don't want to have that code execute.
That's one way to save yourself
some computational time.
So those are all things you can do.
So, this is the third section.
So that's it for tips
and techniques for now.
This is really exciting.
This is our new update,
and it's momentarily
available as a DR release,
DP release, developer preview.
And we're really excited about this.
We've been working really hard this fall.
Excuse me, this spring.
Seems like the year goes by really quick,
I guess.
This spring.
And a lot of the stuff that
we really wanted to get into
Mac OS X Final is made in here.
And we're really excited about it.
Three things.
Cutting-edge technology,
which you'll see in a sec.
Much better correctness.
We've been working very hard with
our partners to iron out our wrinkles
that we have in Mac OS X Final.
And then performance.
Performance has been a big deal.
John, the update's live now.
The update is live now.
Yay.
So that's great to hear.
So this is some of the things that
we concentrated on the update.
Heavyweight ADBT was a big
thing that we had an issue with.
I feel for Mac OS X Final,
specifically properly rendering deep
hierarchies of heavyweight ADBT panels,
et cetera, with card layouts, et cetera.
We worked really hard to
get those bugs ironed out,
and I think you'll be pretty
happy with how far we've come.
Swing, we've made a lot of progress.
Leanne Rucker is a person who is
a Sun employee who works on our
campus and bleeds the rainbow colors,
I think, more than we do.
And she's been working very,
very hard on making our Aqua look
and feel really amazing.
So that's been really great.
You'll see some of the results
of that in a little bit.
Printing works much better.
All the image formats will
be supported when we ship.
We made some progress on there.
This update, they're not all in.
They will be in when we ship.
Those are those ones that
I was mentioning earlier.
We'll get to those real soon.
And we've wiped out a
whole bunch of bugs.
We're really interested in your
feedback on this release because
we're going to push real hard
to get the rest of them nailed.
So, more on the update.
Oh, here we go, the demo.
So what we're going to show you here
is a side-by-side before he starts it.
So, we're
We've been working really hard to
hardware accelerate Java Graphics.
So what you'll see is a before and
after of the hardware acceleration.
So Gerard,
why don't you do the software first?
And we just did some,
I just picked an image off my disk.
But what we did here, this is important,
is, as we'll talk about more in a minute,
we picked the primitives that are used
a lot in UIs here for our testing,
and this is actually a result of a piece
of code that we had for doing profiling.
So we did,
as you may be able to see on the screen,
we did images, rectangles, lines,
and glyphs, glyphs being text.
Those are the four most
important things in the UI.
So what's important to me,
and those of us who have been
working really hard on this,
is that this is actually what's
important for UI rendering.
So now we can do the hardware.
So, a little bit faster.
Thank you.
So, ten times faster in text lines.
I'm not even sure what
that ends up being.
That looks like a hundred times faster.
For rectangles, we're talking ten times.
Images, we're talking more like,
that's a big number, 200 probably.
That's possible because of the
stuff we'll talk about in a minute,
and it'll become more apparent of
where that performance comes from.
So you want to hit the
hard-roll one more time,
just in case they missed it?
- Okay.
- Ray.
So let's go back to slides, right?
Yeah, back to slides.
So I'll talk about how
we did that and why,
et cetera.
So, first of all, here's the other number
that's interesting.
This is the caffeine mark for Mac OS X.
We went from being kind of
slow to pretty competitive.
This is really exciting.
We're the only platform with
hardware-accelerated swing.
and John Burkey:
That's because of the double buffering
thing I talked about earlier.
The reason why is that because we removed
the double buffer from swings code,
where they actually allocate
an image and then render to it,
and we use the OS,
then over the summer and
the fall and the spring,
it took us a while to
get this all worked out,
we switched to a hardware
buffer so our hardware pen can
render into the back buffer.
So you get the advantage of a
double buffer where you don't
get to flicker all that stuff,
but you also get the
advantage of a hardware pen.
We worked very closely with
Peter Graffagnino's Quartz team on this.
They were very, very helpful.
In fact,
we went to SIGGRAPH with them last
year and started talking about this
over interesting New Orleans drinks.
And had a base plan then and started
talking about how to do this.
And then we started designing an
architecture that would handle the
kind of things we need to do here.
So, of course, double buffering,
as I mentioned.
So this is what we've done.
This is sort of the details.
All primitives are hardware-accelerated.
What that means is lines, rectangles,
ovals, recent event.
All those things that you do,
they're the methods hanging
off the graphics object.
They're all hardware-accelerated.
95% of all text rendering
is hardware-accelerated.
And I'll talk more
about that in a minute.
I say 95% because we will back down
on either hard ligature cases for
nationalized text or very large fonts.
That's because we build hardware
caches in VRAM for our glyphs.
And so we don't want to build hardware
caches with fonts that are this big,
right?
That would be a really
big hardware cache.
So we've backed down on those cases.
And general path tessellations
being done right now,
that's really cool because especially
for polygonal shapes and then moving
towards the general path cases,
we'll be able to
hardware-accelerate those too.
So I'm really excited about that because
I think it would be great if we had
the Java 2D API and all the power it
gives you in terms of being able to
specify really great things visually
and actually have it in the system.
So we're excited to have
that hardware-accelerated.
That would be sort of
a first in object APIs.
And then hardware double buffering,
as I mentioned.
And the fourth one's very important.
This is actually our biggest sweet spot.
We upload all static images and even
have image dirtiness detection in there.
So as long as you don't
grab the pixels directly,
We can tell if you rendered
to an image recently,
and we will only upload on
demand as you dirty the pixels.
So what this does is keep our bus
traffic to a minimum and draw basically
blit images from VRAM to VRAM.
That's what the cards are really good at,
so you get optimal performance.
That's why we get 200, 400 times,
you'll see some more demos in a sec,
difference in artwork rendering.
That's really important,
because although it does make good demos,
it also speeds up your UI.
I know some of you probably saw
the JBuilder before and after
where he showed that he could
slide the slider back and forth.
What was cool about that was that
the way Swing implements the slider
is it actually repaints the entire
view on each side of the slider.
So when we accelerate that,
and it's that much different,
that means we've basically accelerated
the whole UI by that amount.
So it's not some simple blit.
It's not like a scrolling operation.
And that's because when you
have separators like that,
they could choose to scale
their content based on size.
They don't have to
slide it out of the way.
So that's really important.
We may go over that
again in a minute too.
So, the reason why we did this,
we took careful measurement,
profiling typical apps with our
profiling tools last summer,
and we built prototypes in the summer,
and basically post the
New Orleans SIGGraph,
we built prototypes with
the guys on the Quartz team.
And then, based on that information,
took some other easy wins and tried to
find out if we could actually do this.
At that point,
we re-architected the graphics
subsystem so that we could
plug in separate engines,
and we'll get into that in a sec,
and then started profiling our
UI rendering system because if
you want to seriously render UI,
you have to let it have access
to the hardware pen as well.
So, we'll get that in a sec, too.
We did a project plan
So here's the new Java 2D implementation.
The main things to notice are,
there's sort of two things
I want to talk about here.
The first is that from your Java app,
you basically talk to sort of the
graphics system you've always dealt with,
but then what we do underneath is
we plug in different pens based on
what surface you're rendering to.
So we've got a printer pen on one side,
we've got the hardware pen on the other.
Printer pen generates PDF,
hardware pen generates
calls to the hardware cards.
And then the guys in the middle
do the stuff that's actually
very similar to the printer pen,
that they generate PDF-like stuff
and renders to those surfaces.
That's very important because we manage
the graphics state separately from
the actual rendering so that we can
switch pens on the fly and that we
can pick the right tool for the job.
And then this middle section
is very important too.
As I was mentioning,
static-accelerated Java graphics
are very important.
They're very important to us.
They're very important to us because
they're very important to us as well.
And static images are cached in
hardware and glyphs are as well
because glyphs are really images,
right?
What we do is we pre-render our
text using Quartz into a hardware
cache and then we use the engine
to put it to the screen on demand.
So it's, in effect,
another hardware cache,
just like an image.
And we try to manage that as well as
we can so that your images are hot,
so that your UI renders quick.
And then the primitives,
as quickly as possible
in the screen case,
get to the hardware pen
and execute card calls.
So that's that.
If you have questions about that,
we can talk about that in Q&A.
So this is the second part of the piece.
And after we built the first part,
we ran into a lot of profiling with--
[Transcript missing]
So, this is where I,
my other tips and technique thing,
which is great for a lot of reasons.
I know it's always been true in
the past that ADBT was the fastest
way to do stuff on your platforms,
but as of now on Mac OS X,
Swing will always be the fastest
GUI framework to use for Java.
It will always be faster than ADBT.
The reason why is because we put a
hardware surface across the entire
window and render with a hardware pen
basically always if Swing is active.
We will turn our hardware pen off
very quickly if ADBT is active.
Only real simple hierarchies will work.
That gets back to the clipping thing.
We fall off very quickly if the
clip gets complicated because
hardware surfaces are rectangular.
So, we're sort of, that's just how it is.
I think the good news is
that Swing is really fast,
and it's very competitive with any
other Swing implementation anywhere.
The bad news is that ADBT won't
be accelerated that way.
There's just not much we can do there.
So, that's pretty important.
Swing will always work
best first because,
again, the rendering path is very simple.
It's painter algorithm like
the other UI frameworks,
and the state is much easier to manage.
and David It's a much
richer UI framework,
so there are some serious
advantages to using it over ADBT.
I think you guys all know that,
but what's cool is now it's
actually the faster one too.
And it uses the same rendering
layer for the widgets as ADBT does.
So in almost all cases,
you'll be calling the same
rendering code anyway,
so there's not really much
point to using the peers.
So, I'm just going to show
an example of that.
Yes, it is.
Okay.
So this is a little sneak
preview of what will happen next.
This is a piece of code and
it's a swing app that I built
in JBL using their wizards.
And I'm just going to cheat
and just go like this.
You can see my cursor.
I'm going to take this J panel
and make it into a panel.
And I'm going to run.
Did I hit right?
Yeah.
The image will take a sec.
This image is 11 megabytes uncompressed.
and so I don't know how many
of you recognize this image,
but one of the hardware acceleration
talks was using this yesterday,
so we thought it would
be cool to use it too.
Anyway, this is with a heavyweight
peer sitting in the middle.
So, you know, it feels kind of fast,
maybe.
It's so hard to know with these kind of
demos until you see the before and after.
So what I'll do is stop it.
and you'll see what it's
supposed to be doing.
So now I'm gonna go back
here and I'll just do one do.
Just a sec.
So again, all I did here was I just made
it back into a swing panel.
So that means it'll be
a normal swing setup.
The frame that contains it is a J frame.
That's a swing frame.
And this image panel,
which is a real simple piece of code,
is a J panel.
So that's normal swing.
So now you'll see how
it's supposed to work.
Oops.
So this is what you should expect.
And this is what you saw yesterday
at the hardware acceleration demo.
Big image took a sec to load.
You see the CPU.
It's a busy boy.
It'll be a sec here.
and David So, a little bit better.
So,
I know that's sort of cheating because
I took a swing app and made it into
an ADBT app and then turned it back.
So, that's obviously,
if you have ADBT apps,
you'd have a lot more work to do.
But the point is there is
light at the end of the tunnel.
You do get speed out of it in addition
to all the additional functionality.
So, I think that's a pretty good
reason to think about it anyway.
Back to slides.
Oh, oops.
Did I do that?
Okay, so actually,
we're going to go to our next demo.
Come on out, Scott.
And I forgot, this is the surprise demo,
which is why I was surprised, too.
So this is what happened.
Yesterday,
we saw the hardware acceleration demo,
and we thought it was really cool.
They showed that 11 megabyte,
2,500 or so by 1,500 pixel image,
that's what we were just
rendering that fast,
being rendered very fast by hardware.
So we thought, really cool,
we'll do that, too.
So we rigged it up,
and then about 10.30 last night,
which is why we looked a little tired,
we thought, well, geez, actually,
we have a 1.7 gigahertz P4 in our office.
So why not see how fast
it does at the same thing?
So this isn't a benchmark.
This is just, we had a machine,
and we said, well, let's rig it up.
So Scott's on a Dell 1.7 gigahertz.
Oh, yeah,
can we switch to the demo machines,
the split?
We'll go back in a minute.
So, Scott's on a 1.7 gigahertz.
You got a mic you can talk about.
[Transcript missing]
I'm getting about a blazing 7.3,
7.7 frames per second.
He's at 305.
Go ahead, Gerard.
I'm getting around 300 frames per second.
Well, 400.
[Transcript missing]
It's not really fair.
So what this demonstrates is that there's
an architectural performance issue here.
Because we use static image VRAM upload,
we can actually deal with very
large images very effectively.
There's very little bus traffic going on.
And because the hardware cards do
this kind of operation natively,
we take advantage of them.
The other implementations
may do that someday,
but we're doing it now.
John?
Yeah.
We have one more thing we want to show.
Go ahead, sorry.
Surprise.
We developed this actually
on John's PowerBook.
And Gerard wanted to show you guys.
Because we're running on
this really cool machine.
I think it has a video card in it.
But that's the Rage 128 Mobility.
And you can see the frame
rate is almost identical.
Can you read what it says there?
The frame rate is almost
500 frames per second.
And this is Rage 128 Mobility.
OK, so it's higher than what we're
getting out of this thing.
It's not dependent on having
a huge-- Can you see it now?
It's the same demo.
So this is architectural performance.
As I said,
our software is built differently.
It's optimized because of the engines
we have underneath us on Mac OS X,
and because of that optimization,
we make it an unfair race.
Our CPU and our graphics card
work really well together,
and that's just how it goes on Mac OS X.
That's it for the demos.
I just want to close with a slide on...
So, sort of three things.
The promise of Java and Mac OS X.
Of course, you just saw performance.
We have an object
framework access to Quartz.
That's really cool.
You've got easy objects to
use to a great Quartz API.
You've got Swing, which is a very rich
cross-platform UI framework.
The code runs anywhere.
So, we'll go to Q&A.
We'll take any questions.
[Transcript missing]